So my name's Brian Holt,
I'm really excited to be here.
I think this is my, I can't even count
right, 13th or 14th time recording for
Frontend Masters.
And I'm just really excited
to be here again teaching.
This is my favorite thing to do, and I'm
really grateful to the Frontend Masters
team for allowing me to continue to
coming back and hanging out with you all.
So, a bit about myself.
My name is Brian, you probably got
that from me saying it three times.
I live in Seattle,
you probably got that from saying that
I'm recording from my house in Seattle.
I work at Microsoft,
I work on Visual Studio Code, and
I work on NodeJS on Azure.
So I'm the PM for
developer experience for NodeJS on Azure.
So, it's a cool mix of writing code and
working with the product teams as well
as endless meetings and endless emails,
as I'm sure many of you understand.
And yeah, today we're gonna be
doing the Project Fox Game.
So in the past,
I've taught you courses like containers,
I've taught you courses like React.
I've taught computer science, I've taught
to Intro to Web Dev, I did the boot camps.
But all those classes had,
we're gonna teach you React,
we're gonna teach you containers,
they had a core curriculum is something
that we're going to build together.
This is gonna be something different and
it's a new experiment for me and
for Frontend Masters,
which there's no core here that I'm
actually trying to impart to you.
We're actually just gonna
build a game together.
And it's gonna be like you and me are in
the room pair coding, designing things
together, having a conversation
about how we wanna build this game.
So what I want you to learn
during this is kind of how me,
I've been an engineer in the industry for
about a decade now, maybe a bit longer,
and I've been coding for
probably two decades.
So I'm not gonna say I'm the best coder,
but
I am gonna say that I'm a effective
developer that ships code regularly.
So hopefully you can pick up some
of my tips, some of my tricks,
some of the things that I've
learned over the years and
maybe hopefully that's helpful too.
And if you like it,
then we'll do more of these.
So the first thing that I want
everyone to do right now is that I
want you to go to this address
which is bit.ly/fox-game.
And no capitals, it's very sensitive,
so it has to be lowercase fox.
That's actually a minus character, right?
Game, right?
And that'll take you to this website.
It won't say bit.ly.fox-game because
I added that after the fact, but
it'll look something like this.
Okay, this is the course notes for
the course that I'm teaching.
You can't see, it's little off frame,
but I have a little laptop right
here that has this website up on it,
so this is literally my notes.
Now what's advantageous to
you is if you fall behind or
you don't understand something I say and
you want to refer to it later,
tou can always go to this website.
It's always gonna be free,
it's always going to be open.
And this is something
that you can share out,
this is not a secret,
the source is open on GitHub, right?
So that's something that's really awesome
that Frontend Masters allows me to do,
which is open source of all
of my course materials.
Okay, so hopefully you've arrived
here on this project website.
I just wanna give you a little
bit of how the page works.
So if I go to the section Welcome and
go to Introduction and click here,
you can see that actually ends up here
in the header, welcome-introduction.
I did that on purpose so that if you don't
know where we are, you can just look up in
that corner and you can see which section
and kind of chapter we're in at the time.
The other thing to know is that
I have some participants that
are online at the moment that are gonna
be asking me questions throughout, so
that's where these questions
are going to be coming from.
Okay, so here this just kind of
says some of the stuff that I've
been going over already,
which is the course objective.
This course is not
necessarily anything new,
it's meant to be a pairing coding
experience with you and me.
Okay, who are you?
So the base level expectations of
this course is I expect you to be
a beginner in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
So I'm not here to teach you
necessarily those core things,
this should not be your first time
with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
I expect you to have at least some
intro to webdev or the boot camp.
So if you haven't done that,
this is a great time to pop
back into that, do those.
I left you some links here for
the boot camp and Intro Web Dev V2.
Nice thing is those two are actually
already free, you just have to sign up for
a Frontend Masters account and
then you can watch those.
And this would be like a perfect
next class to take after that.
If you have just a base level
of familiarity with NodeJS,
that's going to be helpful as well.
But if this is your first time
with NodeJS, that's totally okay.
We won't be doing NodeJS, but
we'll be using NodeJS for
our tools later in the course.
Okay, setup instructions, I really
want you to just install two things.
One of them is NodeJS, you have to
install that one for this class to work.
I personally use NM,
you do not have to use NVM.
That just allows me to switch
versions really quickly.
You can just install it directly off
the website, and that should work for
Windows and that should work for
Mac and Linux just fine.
I am a VM on the Visual Studio code team,
so I would implore you to install VS Code.
I will be using VS Code myself, and so you
will learn a bunch of tips and tricks for
someone that works on the team.
So obviously,
I think that's a benefit to you.
Even if it's necessarily your day to
day driver, if you prefer eMax or
something like that, that's fine.
And you don't have to, there's nothing
required on this course that you have to
do VS Code, but
it's a good time to try new things.
I get asked this every single
time what's your font,
what's your theme, what's your prompt?
For VS code, my font is Dank Mono.
That one is not free,
I think it's 50 British pounds.
If you don't wanna buy a font I've
actually found it worth it cuz I've used
it for years now.
50 pounds over like five years
of using it, probably worth it.
But there is one from Microsoft
called Cascadia code, and
that one is free and
it does have all the ligatures.
I gave you a couple links here to
figure out how to enable those.
A ligature is if I have
like an equal signs and
a open bracket next to it,
it'll combine them into an arrow.
If you see like two things combining,
that's what a ligature is.
You don't have to do it.
I just think it's cool, so I do it.
My theme is the default dark plus
theme for VS code, I just like it.
For my shell, I use ZSH and
I use the Spaceship ZSH prompt,
which is gonna show you what version of
Node I'm using and all that kinda stuff.
And yeah, and obviously VS Code.
This isn't gonna be a perfect course,
right?
I wrote it, so there's gonna be
grammatical and spelling mistakes and
even occasions where there's just things
that are like wrong in the materials.
So this is all on GitHub, you can file an
issue and then we keep track of that and
we'll fix things.
And feel free to open a pull request
as well if you want to fix it
yourself, that's great.
I'll just say that I'm always
happy to chat on social media, but
I get a lot of tech support requests and
I don't necessarily have time
to respond to all of those.
So if you do that,
the better place to put that is an issue,
cuz if it's an issue then we will
eventually get to that, for sure.
Okay, who am I?
This is me at Christmas
in 2018 in Paris drinking
a very fine Belgian beer that's the size
of my head, which I was very happy about.
I told you I work at Microsoft,
I'm also on Frontend Happy Hour,
which is a pretty cool podcast.
And previous to Microsoft,
I worked at LinkedIn, Netflix, Reddit and
in some other smaller
places in Salt Lake City.
I'm also on the board for Betsu Code,
which is an awesome nonprofit.
I live in Seattle.
I have a little dog named Luna,
who you may or
may not hear during the course of this
class cuz she likes to bark at everything.
And yeah, I left my links here for
social media.
So Twitter, GitHub, LinkedIn, feel free to
add me on all those, I always accept them.
Again, huge shout out to Frontend Masters
for letting me create this course,
for giving me incentive and time to do so.
I'm just infinitely grateful to them and
their team and to Mark and everyone.
So I definitely think
their product's worth it,
their workshops are really top-notch.
And last thing, I left a link down here
to the repo for this particular page.
In fact, if you open it here,
I would really appreciate a little star
up there, that's always helpful for me.
One, it feeds my ego to let
me feel good about myself.
Just kidding, sort of.
And it also makes the repo a little
bit more discoverable to other people,
which is always great.